Welcome this morning to
What's New in Cocoa Touch.
Thank you for coming by.
We've been putting together a
lot of new changes for iOS 6,
and I thought I'd take you through
a quick tour of some of the
bigger changes that we're making.
So we'd like to get started
with some of the things that
we're doing for appearance.
So in iOS 5,
we spent a lot of time making
sure that we added a lot of
customization opportunities
to UI kits so you guys could,
you know, your designers could give
you a bunch of artwork,
and you'd be able to scan and
customize UI kit in order to
really fit the design of your app.
So we've made a lot of
changes in that for iOS 5.
We're doing some
additional stuff for iOS 6,
and we'll start with
UI popover background view.
So popover background view was
introduced in iOS 5 so that you could
put your own popover artwork in place,
and then put your own
view controllers in that.
And if you were customizing this,
you might have gone and
done something like,
say, try to duplicate the iBooks look.
And you'd get this little
sort of beige popover view,
and you'd get this little sort of
You made your background view clear,
and you still got that inset
and the drop shadow that we
put onto the default popover.
So if you override wants
default content appearance,
it's a new class method on
UI popover background view,
we'll stop doing that,
and you'll get a completely
flat look for the popover.
So if you've been getting that inset
and it's been driving you crazy,
you can get rid of it now.
Wait till you see what
we have for you later.
That'll be good.
UI Stepper,
not our most customizable class ever.
Pretty much you dragged it
out of IB or you allocated
it and this is what you got.
So you'll be able to tint it now, right?
You can choose really
terrible colors like this one.
This is why I'm an engineer and
not one of the designer guys.
You'll also be able to set the
background image for a particular state,
right?
So instead of getting that
gray chrome with the inset,
you'll be able to set your
own background images.
You'll also be able to set
the divider images for the
left and right segment states,
right?
So as the user is tapping on
the plus and minus images,
you can set the left and right divider
images to get exactly the kind of
pressed or unpressed look you want.
And you'll also be able to set
the increment and decrement
images for particular states.
So if you want to use an up arrow
and a down arrow or something
else that means increment and
decrement to your application,
you'll be able to do that.
So the HIG sort of still applies.
They should be increment and decrement
and you should stick with that.
But you'll be able to
put your own images in.
UI switch, our other not quite
so customizable class.
You'll be able to put
tint color on this also.
And you can also put a thumb
tint color in there as well.
So you'll be able to
tinker around with that.
And we've also gone ahead
and added image customization
for the on and off images as
UI Navigation Bar and Tab Bar.
When you put a nav controller as
the review controller in iOS 6 or
put that view into any other view,
you'll see that there's now a
shadow image on the navigation bar,
and if you're using a tab bar,
there's a shadow on that as well.
You'll be able to customize
and turn that on and off.
It's kind of subtle,
so it doesn't show up very
well in screenshots here,
so we didn't put one in,
but you'll be able to
set your own images,
or you can set it to
nil and get rid of it.
Toolbar, of course,
on the iPad now can go at the top or the
bottom of your view or view controller,
so you'll be able to set the shadow
image for a given toolbar position.
So if you're putting it
at the bottom or the top,
you'll be able to control that as well.
And UI bar button item,
we've also now added some things
for set background image for state,
style, and bar metrics.
The bar metrics change depending
on whether you're in portrait
or landscape on an iPhone,
idiom device.
And this is mostly to be able to do
things like for the done button and
the edit button and stuff like that.
So you'll be able to customize images
for all of those things now as well.
UI page control,
another little tiny control,
the little dots for the page indicators.
You'll now be able to tint those,
both the background color
and the page indicator color.
So you'll be able to fit that directly
into your app's design as well.
We have some new UI image API that allows
you to create images directly from data.
UI image is pretty smart.
It speaks almost everything
that image IO can do.
But if you are going to
give us a raw NSData,
we do need to know the scale.
We can't really derive that
out of whatever metadata
might be inside that NSData.
We can't guarantee it.
So you'll have to tell us
the scale on the way in.
So there's a convenience method
for that and an initializer.
And we've also set it up so you can
create images from CI images now.
So image with CI image
scale and orientation.
You'll be able to move back
and forth between CI image
and UI image much easier.
UI page view controller has a new mode.
So remember the book mode from last year?
We were able to page through,
and it looks almost exactly
like the iBooks transition.
Page view controller now allows
you to set up a scrolling
mode with view controllers.
So if you initialize it with UI page
view controller transition style scroll.
I wish I had autocomplete
for speaking for that.
That would be great.
You'll be able to kick that into a mode
where you can use gestures in order to
just have view controllers come on the
screen and scroll through automatically.
The option for inter-page spacing
is a way that you can adjust the
spacing between view controllers
so it doesn't look like they're all
butted right up next to each other.
There are also some new delegate methods.
We had page view controller did
transition to view controller before.
We're now introducing
page view controller will
transition to view controllers.
So you have the opportunity when
the gesture begins for you to find
out that that happened and which
view controllers are going to be
coming into as child view controllers
into the page view controller.
If you implement presentation
count for page view controller and
presentation index for page view
controller for that sliding mode,
we'll go ahead and automatically
put a UI page control down at
the bottom of the page view
controller and keep track of that.
So as you update it and things slide,
that little indicator is going to update.
And I'd like to show you that right now.
And because you have a captive
-- I have a captive audience,
you're all going to
see pictures of my dog.
So, this is Bud.
This is a really simple app.
It's a view.iview controller that
just goes and loads an image,
and then the delegate
is holding an array,
in this case five of them.
You can see the page
control at the bottom there.
And all of this scrolling stuff
is just taken care of for you.
So there's no -- this is a
couple of delegate methods,
and I just took a
UI page view controller,
allocated it, parked it into the view of
the root view controller.
I think I inset it a little bit.
And this is his please stop
taking pictures of me look.
And you can see as I'm scrolling through,
the page view -- the page control
is updating at the bottom.
All I'm doing is telling the
page view controller which of the
page -- of the view controllers
is highlighted -- is selected.
And it just updates all of that for me.
So very small amount of code there.
It's basically maybe 25 or 30
lines after creating a new sample.
Right?
So not much -- not much to that.
That's Page View Controller.
So those new delegate methods,
you do have to implement both of them,
both the count and the index,
the presentation count
and presentation index,
in order to get that
page control to show up.
There is one appearance session,
Advanced Appearance Customization on iOS.
So if you've been doing a lot
of customization with UIKit,
please come by.
We've got one of our own engineers
and one of the engineers on one of the
teams that uses all the API who has a
lot of experience in customizing UIKit,
and they'll be talking about the best
ways to handle customization in UIKit.
Next on our tour, UI Table View.
We've made a bunch of changes to
UI Table View to try to make it a little
bit easier for you guys to use it.
There's some new features
in there as well.
Table View is really the
workhorse of UIKit for a lot of
navigation style applications,
and there were some things we
thought we could do better.
So we're going to roll those out now.
We've changed the way UI Table View cell
reuse works a little bit in iOS 6.
So you used to be able to do register
nib for cell reuse identifier,
right?
You'd give us a UI nib instance.
We'd instantiate those things
out of the dequeuing mechanism.
You can now register a class up
front for cell reuse identifier.
So you've got your custom
UI Table View cell class.
You register that with your identifier.
And now in iOS 6,
what we're going to ask you to
do is call dequeue reusable cell
with identifier for index path.
And this method has a
couple of real-time changes.
It's got really neat kind of properties.
And remember writing this code, right?
Dequeue reusable cell with identifier.
Check to see if you got a cell.
If you didn't get a cell,
allocate it to the thing, fill it out,
you know, and then go through and
configure your cell.
If you call dequeue reusable cell
with identifier for index path,
you will always get initialized instance.
It will also be the right
size for that index path.
So you'll be able to do layout inside.
And you'll be able to do layout
inside your content view at that point
knowing that the size is correct.
So on iOS 6,
you don't have to write that other code.
So we're making sure you can write less.
So UI Table View Header Footer
View is also a new class in iOS 6.
It's a way to be able to do cell
reuse for headers and footers as well.
And it's very similar to
UI Table View Cell itself.
You can set a tint color.
You'll have text and detail text labels.
There's a content view.
There's a background view
for highlighted state.
All of these things work very
similar to UI Table View Cell,
including the way reuse works.
So you'll be able to initialize
with reuse identifier.
You'll get a prepare for reuse method
on your table header footer views.
And the same thing.
You'll be able to register those,
and you'll call DQ reusable header
footer view with identifier.
You'll get a new instance.
It'll be cooked.
It'll be the right size.
Header view for section and footer
view for section are how you can
return these to the table view system.
And you'll be able to also,
in that index on the right-hand side,
you know, when you put up a table view,
and you've got the table view,
you'll be able to do that.
So you can now actually theme
those as well with colors.
The section index color
is for the actual text,
and then the section index tracking
background color is what color to use
when the user puts their finger down
on the index and starts moving around.
So you can now also theme
those things as well.
There are also new table
view delegate methods.
So the delegate is how you're
finding out about things like
user events as well as when views
come in and out of the table view.
So we always had table view,
will display cell for row at index path.
We're now introducing will
display header view for section,
will display footer view for section.
did end displaying cell,
did end displaying header view,
and did end displaying footer view.
So now, as you're scrolling through,
that delegate is going to get called
back on all of these methods and
tell you when the cells are coming
in and out of the view hierarchy.
So you'll be able to
respond to events there.
And how many people actually
have installed the seed?
How many people were able to get through
on the Wi-Fi to install the seed?
Okay.
If you've been fooling around
with the refresh control,
you've seen this.
It's available on TableView,
and it's very easy to use
on TableView Controller.
The UI refresh control is
a subclass of UI control,
and when you pull down,
you're going to see that
round refresh circle,
the arrow chasing its tail,
and then if you pull down farther,
we're making that extend,
and then you release it,
and you get the little
indeterminate progress indicator.
That is a UI refresh control.
It's set up just by calling init.
It is a UI control,
so you're going to set a target
action on it so that when that
control starts refreshing,
you'll get a message on
the target of the action.
You can find out whether
or not it's refreshing.
You can tint it,
and if you're using it via
UI TableView Controller,
when you pull it down and
you hit the threshold,
we'll fire its target
action automatically.
You're responsible actually for
calling end refreshing in order to
get it back into its normal state,
but you can also trigger
that programmatically just
by calling begin refreshing,
right?
But you will have to call
end refreshing on your own.
So UI Collection View.
If UI TableView is the workhorse
of navigation in UIKit,
UI Collection View is how you're
going to do things that involve
more than one column and do really
sophisticated layout with it.
So, you know, TableView is great for
showing something vertically.
Collection View is far more flexible.
If you've installed
the seed on your iPads,
you've noticed, hey, look,
there's a clock app now.
That clock app is using
UI Collection View and its
default layout for this view.
This is basically a grid.
It's got a bunch of regular sort of,
you know, everything is the same size.
They're laid out really cleanly.
There's an add button there.
It's really -- it looks like a grid.
It looks like the rest of the clocks.
This is all possible
with the default layout.
But you can also do far more
complex layouts like this one.
This is the alarms layout
inside the same application.
It's a weekly kind of calendar.
It shows all the alarms that
you've got set on your iPad.
So the parts are really familiar.
UI Collection View has a data
source as a delegate there,
UI Collection View sells,
but it has this other layout object.
So the system works the same way.
Collection View asks its
data source for the number of
sections in a Collection View.
Once it finds that out,
it starts asking for the number
of items in a particular section.
Once it finds out how many items,
it starts asking for cells for an
item at the particular index path.
You're going to vend those
UI Collection View cells at that point.
The one difference between
this is UI Collection View cell
versus UI Table View cell.
Table View cell, remember,
has all of those custom,
those default styles.
You know, there's one for subtext and
detail text and things like that.
Collection View cell is really simple.
It's a cell.
It's just a view.
It's got a background view.
It has a selected background view.
So these are how you're going to be able
to do highlights and things like that.
And then it's also got a content view,
and the content view is where you're
going to put all of your stuff.
Right?
That's... it.
You can do anything you want inside that,
but there's no default
styles or anything like that.
This gives you tremendous flexibility
in how you lay things out and how all of
your appearance stuff is going to work.
So the delegate is very similar.
Right?
That's where you're going to find
out about user events that are
happening as the user taps on
various things in the interface.
Right?
So you'll get should
highlight item at index path.
Collection View should
select item at index path.
Or did select item at index path.
All of those things are events
that you can respond to,
and you'll get messages
about them on the delegate.
The layout is really where
Collection View's power lives.
So the layout is a way to be able
to have the Collection View be
told where each item should go.
So Collection View is really good
at laying things out in a grid.
The default layout mechanism is
called UI Collection View Flow Layout.
And by default, it's a way to have the
collection view be able to be
told where each item should go.
And by default,
it's just going to sort of throw things
out into this very regular pattern.
And you can put section titles or
supplementary views and decoration
views and things like that.
It's not just about putting
the cells in as well,
and those are all
controlled by the layout.
But this isn't very interesting.
And if you have to have
everything be the same size,
it's not particularly flexible.
So Flow Layout also allows
you to do things like this,
where not all the cells
are the same shape,
not all the cells are the same size.
The rows don't have to be the same size.
You can think of it a little bit as type.
You can think of it as typing into a
word processor and having things wrap.
You'll be able to set things
up so that you get exactly
the kind of look you want.
If Flow Layout doesn't do it for you,
you can go right on to
customizing and subclassing
UI Collection View Layout yourself.
And you'll be able to do things
like custom layouts that do stacks
of things or custom layouts that
don't fit readily into a grid.
Right?
This -- This is the Flow Layout.
This guy is actually -- this other one,
the alarms one,
is actually a custom layout.
It's not amazingly complicated,
but it's one example of how you
can exactly position all of the
various elements of your collection.
There are two collection view sessions,
introducing collection views
and advanced collection views
and building custom layouts.
I hear that the demo in introducing
collection views right at the end
of the session is pretty amazing.
So if you guys want to see
the kinds of things that are
possible with UI collection view,
you should definitely go to that talk.
UI view controller.
Again, another workhorse of UIKit.
UI view controller is how we've been
composing API and UI for a while,
right?
We've been vending a lot of
things as UI view controllers now.
They're really how we put together
interfaces in a really flexible way.
It allows you to use navigation
controller and things like
that really effectively.
We're working on trying to make
UI view controller easier to use.
One of the things we looked
at was in view unloading.
So view will unload and view did unload.
These are called automatically in iOS 5
when you get did receive memory warning,
right?
You're going to take some steps to
release some caches and things like that.
And then we're going to go
ahead and call view will unload,
and then we were taking the
view out of the view hardware,
we were unloading it
from the view controller,
and then we would call view did unload.
There are actually two
interesting things here.
One was we were trying to help everybody
control memory in an automated fashion.
And we really wanted to make
sure that we were doing it in a
way that was really easy to use.
And we really wanted to be able to
make sure that everybody was using
only exactly what they needed to use.
The catch is these are
really hard to write.
It's very easy to wind up in your
view will unload and view did
unload leaving a dangling pointer
reference behind and then when we
go ahead and unload those views,
suddenly your app crashes.
And memory warnings are hard
things to actually debug around,
so it's a tricky situation to be in.
Also, we did science.
We do science at Apple occasionally,
and this is one case where we did it,
and we realized that the memory savings
from cleaning up a pointer here and
there in view will unload and view did
unload is absolutely nothing compared
to the fact that Core Animation is
already taking the back end sort of
layer out when it's not displayed anyway,
and so all of that memory is the
little bits of memory that you were
cleaning up is completely dominated
by what Core Animation is doing.
So in iOS 6, these are deprecated.
We're not calling them anymore.
That was not what I thought
you guys were going to do.
We also recommend that
in iOS 5 and before,
you don't implement them anymore.
So if you're going to be deploying --
building on iOS 6 and deploying back,
I think the earliest deployment target
you can get in Xcode these days is 4.3.
Don't implement it.
Don't bother.
Write less code.
If you were doing some things in
ViewWillUnload and ViewDidUnload,
you should look and figure out whether
those things are more appropriately
done either in the dialog or in
ViewWillDisappear and ViewDidDisappear.
But this was tough to figure out,
and when we were running
this in test code,
we discovered that we fixed an
entire class of crashers that
really just were worth fixing.
So that's why we're deprecating this.
The forwarding callbacks.
When we introduced containment in iOS,
what was it, 4, 3, 5?
We introduced containment a while back,
and it was a way to formalize parent
and child view controller relationships.
One of the things that we did was
set it up so that parents forwarded
their appearance callbacks and their
rotation callbacks to their children.
So if you were overriding automatically
forward appearance and rotation methods
to child view controllers to return no,
then you were on the hook for
doing that stuff yourself.
We're splitting this into two methods.
We're deprecating that first really long
one that I'm not going to say again.
And we're putting that into should
automatically forward rotation
methods and should automatically
forward appearance methods.
So these still return yes by default.
We're still going to go
ahead and forward those.
But if you override the latter one,
should automatically
forward appearance methods,
we're going to ask you to do
something a little bit different.
If you were overriding this and
doing the forwarding by hand,
you were sending viewWillAppear
and viewDidAppear to the child
view controllers yourself.
It's tricky to get right in terms
of when animations are happening and
getting that in the right order and
making sure that the state machine
is preserved so that viewWillAppear
always happens before viewDidAppear,
and sometimes it's easy
to get those reversed,
things like that.
Rather than have you keep
calling those by hand,
and if you're forwarding it,
UIKit also takes steps to
make sure that some of those
viewDidAppear or viewDidDisappear
occur at the end of the run loop.
We're going to ask you to
call a different method.
It's called
beginAppearanceTransitionAnimated
and endAppearanceTransition.
beginAppearanceTransitionAnimated,
you're going to tell us if the view
is appearing or it's disappearing.
It's appearing if it's true,
is appearing is no if you're taking
the view out of the view hierarchy,
and whether or not that
appearance transition is animated.
And then when you're done
with that transition,
you'll call endAppearanceTransition.
What this does is it goes ahead and
calls viewWillAppear and viewDidAppear or
viewWillDisappear and viewDidDisappear,
and it makes sure to call them at
exactly the right time so that the rest
of UIKit is self-consistent in terms
of animations and things like that.
This is a new method in iOS 6.
But it turns out it exists back in iOS 5.
So if you're compiling on iOS 6,
we've retro published it.
It's available for use back in 5.0.
I'd like to talk a little bit about
rotation and interface orientation.
So this is our old friend,
should auto rotate to
interface orientation.
Remember what happens
when we rotate the device,
we go through and if it's a
navigation controller like this one,
we're going to go ahead and ask a
whole bunch of questions about the
child view controllers and whether
the top view controller supports that.
It's going to get asked,
should auto rotate?
It says, sure, let's auto rotate.
We go ahead and rotate the device,
and then we counter rotate
the interface in order to make
sure everything looks right.
But interface orientation and rotation
are kind of combined in this concept.
And when you start
looking at how that works,
it gets a little more confusing when
you move to something like an iPad.
Right?
Because the iPad has a whole bunch of
view controllers that tend to get nested.
If you're using split view controller,
you're kind of in this mode now.
If you look at that guy right there,
that's a view controller.
He's a child view controller
of another view controller,
which is the child of
another view controller,
which is the root view controller.
So we're four levels deep here.
And while this thing has
an interface orientation,
it kind of doesn't make
a whole lot of sense.
And one of the questions is,
should this even be
allowed to deny rotation,
right?
One of the things that we've been looking
at is the fact that many times people
are conflating interface orientation
with layout and thinking things like,
oh, hey, yeah, if I'm in landscape,
I must be wider than I am tall.
Well,
that's clearly not the case here for
that highlighted view controller,
right?
He's taller than he is wide,
but the interface
orientation is landscape.
And so trying to pile together
the idea of layout with your
orientation isn't quite right.
We'd like you to think about layout
as something that you're responsive
to as the bounds of your view changes,
right?
Parent view controllers can
take a child view controller,
park their view in any
aspect ratio they want.
Your view controller should be
responsive to that kind of layout.
So we're looking at how to
deal with some of these things.
So it conflates interface
orientation with rotation.
It conflates interface
orientation with layout.
And in a lot of cases, it's meaningless.
We saw the child view
controller case a minute ago,
but a form sheet is another good example,
right?
It's this little small thing.
It hovers in the middle of the screen.
It doesn't really have
interface orientation.
So what we're looking at doing,
and this is available in the seed,
is we're going to change
things a little bit.
Should auto rotate to
interface orientation,
we're going to look at moving
to the side a little bit.
And we're going to go with
supported interface orientations.
This is a bit mask of the
interface orientations that
your view controller supports,
right?
And preferred interface orientation
for presentation is used when you're
modally presenting a view controller.
You're doing a full screen presentation,
it's going to come up.
Sometimes your view controller will
support all the interface orientations,
but it really prefers to be in
landscape and the devices in portrait.
A great example of this is from
Scott's demo yesterday when he
called up the preview of the movie,
right?
That movie player came in,
it came up in landscape,
you saw the device rotate, right?
He rotated the device in order to see it.
So if you're going to be presenting view
controllers with different orientations
from the one that's on screen,
you'll have that view controller
return preferred interface
orientation for presentation.
There's also a new
method in UI application,
supported interface
orientations for window.
You'll be able to turn supported
interface orientations on and off
for a given window at that level,
but if you don't implement this,
what we're doing now is we're
going to believe what you
told us in the Info.plist.
So if you only want your application to
do landscape left and landscape right,
go ahead and declare
that in the Info.plist.
All of this is not on by default.
I'm getting a lot of like, oh, my God,
this is, wow, big change.
It is.
It's not on by default.
We'd like you to experiment with it,
and the way you're going
to experiment with it is by
using UI application supported
interface orientations is enabled.
It's an NS user default key.
You can set this in your
argument domain right from Xcode,
or you can register it as a user
default with NS user default.
So we're going to set this in our
user defaults register defaults.
This will turn on a mode where
we will start asking supported
interface orientations,
and we're only going
to ask it at two times.
We're going to ask it when you rotate,
but we'll ask it of the root view
controller and of the topmost
presented full screen view controller.
It used to be really easy to wind
up in a situation where you'd have
supported interface orientations,
and somewhere deep in the hierarchy,
one of those things is going to say
supported interface orientations.
Should auto-rotate interface orientation?
No.
And then suddenly, it breaks.
You have no idea why it's not rotating.
You have to go through and find all
of the places where you've implemented
that method and get it exactly right.
Declaring supported
interface orientations helps
alleviate a lot of that.
So please turn this on in the
seed with your applications.
Let us know what's working
and what isn't working.
we'd like to be able to
turn this on pretty soon.
There's a UI view controller
session called the Evolution of
View Controllers on iOS.
It's going to talk a lot about
effective use of view controllers and
how best to work alongside UIKit and
the view controllers that we vend.
So let's talk about Auto Layout,
another thing that's
coming from OS X to iOS.
View layout in iOS 5, pretty constrained,
right?
You can do explicit layout by
calling set frame on your views.
You're probably writing a lot of
layout subviews code there in order
to make sure that when things change,
you're positioning all of
those views exactly right.
Not very flexible, tremendously powerful,
lots of control.
You can use auto-resizing masks,
springs and struts, right?
You can set flexible width for, you know,
particular left margin, right margin,
flexible height for, you know,
things like that.
And that allows you to say, well,
this view is always a fixed
distance from the bottom,
a flexible distance from the top,
but it's always relative
to its super view,
right?
And the minute your designer
comes along and says,
hey, I've got this great idea.
I want to have a button that's
always 20%. 20 points to
the left of another button,
no matter where that other button is.
And now you've been
using springs and struts,
everything's been great,
and your designer just came
to you with this great idea,
and now you're like, oh, man,
I've got to write all
this layout subviews code.
Constraints allow you to express the
relationships between two objects,
and once you've expressed
those relationships,
the frames get calculated automatically
all the way down the view hierarchy
for you whenever the layout changes,
right?
So the way you'll express this is
by bringing in NSLayoutConstraint.
LayoutConstraint.
LayoutConstraint has
constraint with item.
You're going to set up a
constraint between two items.
LayoutConstraint with item
attribute related by two item
attribute multiplier constant.
There's that autocomplete thing again.
And if we wanted to express that,
it's really item one attribute is
equal to some multiplier times item
two attribute plus the constant.
All the math geeks out there are going,
it's y equals mx plus b.
This is so cool.
Those relationships can also be greater.
They're equal to, less than or equal to.
In this case, we're going to use an
equal to relationship.
And the way it looks with
those two buttons is this.
We're going to set up the constraint
between button one's right edge.
It should be equal to
button two's left edge,
NSLayoutAttribute left.
The multiplier is going to be 1.0,
but you can play around with that and
see scaling effects in the equation.
And the constant is minus 20.
That's 20 points to the left,
so the right edge of that button is
going to be 20 points to the left of
the left edge of the second button.
As these constraints change,
if you set the constraint on
that second button to move,
the first one's just going
to line up on its own.
You can also set up minimums and
maximums and things like that.
LayoutConstraint.h defines the relations,
so you can do less than or equal to,
equal or greater than or equal to.
It also is going to define
a bunch of attributes,
so you can do left, right, top, bottom,
leading and trailing space.
You can do heights, center, X, center, Y.
You can also line up on baselines.
So, for instance,
text fields vend their text
baseline out as one of the
attributes you can line up on.
Constraints are also
there's a visual format.
You can do all of this in IB, by the way.
If you've got your nib up
and you're clicking around,
you'll see constraints
show up in the inspector.
You can set the relationships
up between two objects,
and it will emit those
directly into the nib.
They'll get loaded and set
up for you automatically.
There's also a visual format,
which is really easy to use.
It returns an NSArray of constraints,
because that one constraint that we
did earlier just describes one thing.
But you can set the
visual format up to say,
well,
this view is 20 points from this other
view and 30 points from this view,
and it has a minimum width of 60.
You can set up their optional.
There's a whole
evaluation hierarchy here.
You can make them prioritize
so that certain constraints
must be satisfied at a greater
priority than other constraints.
The maximums and minimums
are really interesting,
because you'll be able to do things
like handle localization by setting
constraints on your text views.
And then as the strings
get longer or shorter,
all of the constraints that
are bound to that text view are
going to go ahead and update.
So the buttons will always be in the
right place as your localizations change.
It'll be a really, really handy way to be
able to do localizations.
And it can apply to any two views.
Those two views don't have
to be in the same place.
They don't have to be in the
same direct sub-view hierarchy.
They don't even have to be peers.
They just have to have a common ancestor.
So when you add the constraint
to the view hierarchy,
you have to add that constraint
to the nearest common ancestor.
If you do this in IB,
it's all taken care of.
The Auto Layout session is,
there are several, but the UI kit one,
the introduction to
Auto Layout for iOS and OS X.
State restoration,
another thing coming to iOS from OS X.
[Transcript missing]
Right.
So user hit the home button.
All of these things got their
little opportunity to encode
a bunch of Restorable State,
everything wanders off,
and the app gets killed.
User relaunches the app.
We're going to start restoring state.
What happens here is this
delegate method gets called,
"Application will finish launching with
options." It's a new method in iOS 6,
and if you're using state restoration,
what you're going to want to do
is take most of the things that
you were doing and did finish
launching and move them up.
So if you were initializing things
that are required for your apps,
run, move it into,
"Will finish launching with
options," if you want to be
able to use state restoration.
Once we've gone through that,
just before we call
didFinishLaunchingWithOptions,
we're going to run through and
start asking you to create view
controllers based on identifiers
and identifier components.
You can think of them like key paths.
ViewControllerWithRestorationIdentifierP
athCoder is going to get called.
It's a class method that will get
called and ask you to return a view
controller for this particular thing.
Here's the coder we used to write it out.
And then those view controllers
will get called with
DecodeRestorableStateWithCoder.
And that's where you can pull out all
of that stuff you put in in the first
place when the app started to go down.
State Preservation and
Restoration sessions,
Saving and Restoring Applications,
State on iOS.
This is a way to be able to do things
in a really fine-grained fashion.
One of the really cool things about
the way State Preservation is working
in iOS with view controllers is we're
doing a bunch of this stuff for you.
So, Table View Controller is going to
go ahead and scroll away its scroll
position and things like that.
So, Navigation Controller is going
to tell you about the navigation
stack that's been pushed onto it by
giving you those component paths.
So, we're doing a bunch of
work on your behalf.
What we'd like you to be able to do is
concentrate on the state restoration
bits that are unique to your view
controllers and your applications.
This should make it a lot easier
to be able to get the user back
to that state where they left off
right after the app got killed.
One of the things that we talk
about a lot in the hallway is
what makes a great user interface.
User interfaces are --
they're kind of funny things.
Great UI design -- somebody said
this on the hallway the other day.
Great UI design allows expression
and nuance in how the user
interacts with your application.
And
It's a neat statement.
It's a little bit about just how
you're able to give the user a
really great user experience,
but we also want you guys to be
able to express the things that
are important in your application
in a really effective manner.
Great UI design allows expression
and nuance in how the user
interacts with your application.
This is running on my iPad.
It is a UI label.
It is an NS attributed string.
It is one label.
We are bringing styled text to iOS.
Getting piped all the
way through our API.
So if you go look at UILabel,
you'll see set attributed text.
You can do this on UILabel.
You can do it on all the strings
that you feed to UIPickerView.
UITableViewCell has
attributed text setters now.
[Transcript missing]
We support a bunch of
different attributes.
UI kit NSAttributedString.h is defining
things like the font attribute,
paragraph styles, foreground color,
background color, baseline offset,
strikethroughs, underlines, shadows.
You'll be able to do all
kinds of things with this.
We now also have a string drawing
category on NSAttributedString.
Size, draw at point, and draw on rect are
the really basic ones.
Just go ahead and splat this attributed
string onto the screen at this point.
There's also some more
sophisticated string drawing API,
Draw with Rect Options Context and
Bounding Rect with Size Options Context.
The former actually does the drawing.
The latter will tell you how
big a particular chunk of
rendering has turned out to be.
These are really,
really powerful for being able
to draw directly into images.
So the options are things like
truncating the last visible line,
right?
If it's going to hit the end
and you're not going to be able
to render the entire string,
we'll go ahead and put an ellipsis there.
Things like line fragment origins
to be able to find exactly
where things are starting.
Font letting and device
metrics are also used.
And that string drawing context is
an object that's basically telling
you -- that's your opportunity
to tell us exactly the parameters
of how you want it to draw.
So things like the minimum scale
factor and tracking adjustment.
Or the actual scale factor.
And actual tracking
adjustment for the context.
And the total bounds of how
big you want that drawing.
So this is really, really powerful stuff.
And hopefully it's going to be
able to help you guys write really
fantastic styled text apps that really
express what you want to the user.
So introduction to
attributed strings for iOS.
The advanced attributed strings talk.
So we've got text engineers from UI kit
who are going to be here to tell you
all about all about attributed strings.
There are a lot of other sessions.
There's also a lot of
other things in UIKit,
things like UI Activity View Controller,
which is a way to be able to
take advantage of all of the new
social stuff that's going on,
including as well as doing all of
the things you could do before,
like mailing something to someone
or tweeting it or printing it,
things like that.
Please take a look through the headers.
Lots of other sessions going on.
The social stuff, new social services,
the Twitter framework has now been
brought into the social framework.
So there's Facebook integration
for Chinese users.
We've got Sina Weibo and a
number of other social things
that are going on there.
It works with Apple accounts.
So all of the things that we did for
Twitter integration to be able to make
it easy for you guys to tweet from your
applications without having to handle
all of the authentication business,
we're doing for all of these
other services now as well.
So you don't have to
handle any of that stuff.
Game Center.
You heard Scott talk about some of this
at the end of the keynote a little bit.
Challenges are available.
You'll be able to send challenges not
just from the Game Center application,
but from within your
application yourselves.
There's a new consolidated
view controller,
and you'll get some control
over the authentication
API for Game Center as well.
There are, I think,
four or five Game Center sessions.
Please check your schedules if you're
using Game Center to go find out.
There's a lot of new stuff here.
There's a new map application.
You'll see maps look fantastic
in all of your apps when
they're brought in from MapKit.
But there are now new ways to launch
maps and indicate points of interest.
And also there's new APIs for being
able to write transit apps that will
interact with the map application.
PassKit.
You saw PassBook as well in the demo.
PassKit is a way to be able to have
downloadable cards for your applications.
It has coupons and boarding passes,
event tickets, things like that.
They get pushed to the device.
They're signed.
There's an entire API both
for e-mail and e-mail.
You can use the API both for interacting
with PassBook cards on the device as well
as all of the server API that you would
have to implement in order to support it.
There are a couple of
talks about that this week.
Please go to those as well.
In-app purchases.
There are new aspects
to in-app purchases.
You'll be able to track downloads
and payment transactions.
You'll be able to do content purchase
right from within your application.
And Apple can host your content.
So if you're going to
be doing things online,
Apple will be able to host your content.
your content.
EventKit,
there are new APIs in EventKit to
get proximity information
and time-based alarms,
you know, proximity information for your
reminders and things like that.
There's also a really
great data privacy talk,
and if you're interacting
with core location reminders,
address book, photos, or EventKit,
we're taking new steps in order
to make sure that the user gets
to control exactly when your
app gets access to their data,
right?
We're trying to make it very clear about
what's happening and make it easier
for you guys to know exactly when the
user's allowed access to their data.
There are new messages for
users so that you can find out,
so that you can provide a reason why
you need this information from the user.
And also there's some API for when
to present and not present UI.
So if you've been denied
access to something and you
just want to hide a button,
there's API for that as well.
There's this data privacy
session is happening.
I think it's tomorrow,
but check yourself.
You can find out more about
that in the next few weeks.
So if you're interested in that,
check yourself.
And if you're interested
in the next few weeks,
check yourself.
And if you're interested
in the next few weeks,
check yourself.
There are a number of
related sessions this week.
Building concurrent
user interfaces in iOS.
Anything you can do to not block
the main thread is a great idea,
so we've got some engineers
talking about that.
Keyboard input in iOS,
if you're doing any kind of sophisticated
custom keyboards and things like that,
we'll have an engineer
talking about that.
Enhancing user experience
with scroll views.
It's the Josh and Eliza show, again.
Go see that.
That is a fantastic talk every year,
and it's everything about, you know,
real-time data privacy.
And I'm sure you'll be able
to find out more about that.
So we're talking about, you know,
really advanced techniques in
using scroll views effectively.
Up and running, making a great impression
with every launch.
Got a couple of UI kit and Siri engineers
talking about how to get through
application did finish launching as fast
as possible and the kinds of things to
do to really get a great impression from
your app every time the user launches it.
Polishing your interface rotations.
Rotation is -- the rotation experience
is a key part of being -- of using iOS.
It keeps the illusion of how
fluid everything really is.
Please go see that if you're
doing anything with rotations.
Building advanced gesture recognizers,
right?
Nobody wants to be overriding begin and
end touches and all that other stuff.
Gesture recognizers are really powerful.
We've got to talk about that.
And internationalization tips and tricks,
right?
Tim said to get your
apps ready for China.
It's not just China.
It's every country that we release in,
you guys have an opportunity
to sell your apps in.
And if you're going to be doing that,
internationalization is a key part of it.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
More information about all of this stuff,
Mr.
Jake Behrens,
our UI frameworks evangelist,
would be happy to talk to you.
There's documentation online
at developer.apple.com.
The forums are open.